What happens to the weapons and gear of fallen soldiers ?  Enemy equipment is another story .  If an item is not serviceable and the casualty is still alive the inspectors will create an effort to send the item to the casualty 's home .  Please explain to to me what happens to all this excess military equipment .  This is to try and maintain the combat effectiveness , AKA how many bullets you can throw at people , despite having less people .  When a Soldier is injured or killed during combat operations he / she is put onto a MEDEVAC ( medical evacuation ) vehicle , whether it be a helicopter or some form of ground transportation .  As for the gear , after it is recovered back to a FOB ( Forward Operating Base ) all gear that was worn by a casualty is inspected by people certified to determine whether it is serviceable .  It is not uncommon for Soldiers who received gunshots to their helmets to acquire to keep those for life .  He does this by maintaining a MAL ( master authorization list ) given to him by the Company 's Armorer when weapons are signed out from the arms room .  In an Infantry platoon it is the Platoon Sergeant 's job to maintain accountability of all men , weapons , and equipment .  In other situations enemy equipment is destroyed on the spot to permanently prevent the enemy from using that against us .  If the Soldier carried a crucial casualty producing weapon , like a machine gun with a higher rate of fire than the standard M4 , it will be given to the next most qualified person along with all the ammo .  In a perfect scenario where we eliminate the threat and have time to investigate any enemy equipment is gathered by a TSE team ( Tactical Site Exploitation ) on the spot and processed similar to a crime scene .  Please explain like I'm five.  Prior to the Soldier being loaded all of his equipment is stripped off of him / her and retained by the unit .  From my inferences in modern conflict you ca n't just leave AK 's in a foreign country because civilians can acquire them .  Hey , US Army Infantryman who is actually in Afghanistan right now here .  Bagged , tagged , photographed , and turned into Military Intelligence for processing so they can determine ways to fight better against the enemy 's weapons and equipment .  TL;DR Platoon Sergeant is responsible for recovering friendly equipment to the best of his abilities and repaired as quickly as possible .  Enemy equipment is analyzed by Military intelligence or destroyed on the spot .