How did pirates / navy track down other ships back before radar / sonar ?  The winner is the faster ship or the one that does n't make the mistake .  This gives an idea of intent .  Guess right and the sail should appear on the horizon .  Write a letter to everyone you know to every possible port and ship your target might encounter .  However now you have a reasonable idea where to start the search .  Once the search region is known then it 's all about guessing where the ship will head next .  With luck and few weeks or a few months later the letters would be read .  Packets were small , robust , but fairly fast ships that were the stagecoaches of the day .  Which is why you made copies .  Guess the destination and either get there initial or attempt to intercept the ship at sea between destinations .  Which is why you made copies .  Does the ship head to sea for mischief ?  Which you 'll read weeks or months later .  There are only so many interesting places to go .  Then does the ship have enough water ?  Now you can start to guess how well supplied the ship is .  Leave the letters for the packets to pick up .  Some packets would n't construct it or the mail would simply be destroyed enroute .  It 's not possible to track steps through ocean .  The ocean is endless but interesting places are not .  So now you have an estimate of the speed .  If the ship 's sails are thin and patched then it will be slow and easier to catch .  If the ship has weed on the hull then it will be slow and easier to catch .  Other times the packet would leave a letter in every port intended for a specific ship .  Does the ship head to a port for food or supplies ?  Part bus , part mail service , and always smelly and cramped .  If the ship 's rigging is old and frayed then it will be slow and easier to catch .  Does the ship head for fresh water ?  Please explain like I'm five.  Your friends write back and describe the condition of the ship , where it was seen , and what activity it may be up to .  I wondered this while watching Pirates of the Caribbean and wondered how ships chased each other down ?  Is the ship using gunpowder excessively or conservatively ?  Then create copies .  The packets would run a route picking up your letters and dropping them off at the destinations .  Wait for days or weeks .  Luck , such as with the weather gauge , plays a huge factor on who chases whom .  Now the chase begins .  I 'll assume here that the sail is n't on the horizon and we 're starting from scratch .  The most direct routes between these places form routes .  Guess wrong and spend the next few weeks or months repeating the process .