How vulnerable are TOR users .  The news article you posted does n't do a great deal of explaining , but the [ published paper ] ( URL_0 ;) is quite useful .  But if the NSA controlled most of the postmen , they can just ask them if anyone got a really heavy parcel delivered that day .  4 ) The adversary obtains network statistics from flow records corresponding to the server to exit traffic and for the various clients that used the victim entry node for the duration of the attack experiment .  I 'm not literally 5 , and I have a basic knowledge of computers , but I simply ca n't understand [ this ] ( URL_0 ) .  Thus the client , whose traffic statistics are most correlated to the exit node traffic are chosen as the victim and verified .  But critically this relies on two things : having control of the end server , and being able to monitor major Internet exchange points in near real - time , and we 're talking hundreds if not thousands of gigabytes per second here .  Even though it may look different , the weight of the packet indicates it 's the same packet which the NSA sent out .  So even if the parcel gets repackaged in different boxes or wrapping paper with new labels on ( the middlemen trying to anonymise the post ) , at the end of the day , the client is still going to be receiving a really heavy ass parcel .  And then you 're fucked .  3 ) After sometime the download process is stopped and the server halts the traffic shaping procedure .  7 ) The victim client ’s statistics is expected to be most correlated to the server to exit node traffic .  Basically , if the NSA controlled a service you were trying to access via Tor , they could send specially shaped packets to act as a sort of label .  How can an attacker deanonymize a victim using this procedure ?  But that 's not nearly ELI5 enough so I 'll do a * really simplified * analogy which gets the idea across : * * TL;DR * * - say Tor was n't actually an Internet thing and instead was a way of anonymously sending physical mail .  2 ) While the download progresses , the server injects a repeating traffic pattern in the TCP connection it sees originating from the exit node .  Even though the data is encrypted and anonymised through Tor ( between the entry and exit nodes ) , if the NSA controlled a lot of routers or major Internet exchange points , they could still track the special packets from the server to the first exit - node , through the middlemen , and finally ( and imperatively ) back through the original entry node & back to your original connection .  5 ) If the flows are not correctly aligned , equally long and evenly separated , then the adversary applies the approximation strategy to correctly align them .  Particularly , the attack summarised through the following steps : 1 ) Client downloads a file from the server that colludes with the adversary .  If the sender of the parcel was malicious ( eg , an NSA controlled honeypot site ) they could send out really heavy parcels instead of normal , compact , letters .  If they 're lucky , one of the postmen they control remembers delivering a super heavy parcel to 23 Jump Road , Michigan , USA .  Which , in and of itself is pretty useless .  6 ) The adversary thereafter computes correlation coefficient for the server to exit traffic network statistics and for all the individual clients that used the victim entry node during the attack experiment .  Please explain like I'm five.  Theoretically yes Tor is vulnerable but this paper does n't prove it can actually be exploited in any meaningful manner to intercept communications between two end users that want to remain anonymous .