How do forensic psychologists create such specific criminal profiles ?  In certain situations , it may be possible to infer some psychological traits or characteristics of the criminal through profiling with a reasonable degree of accuracy based on factors such as who the targeted victim(s ) were , where the crime took place , what evidence was left at the crime scene , whether the crime scene was left neat / clean or messy / dirty , etc .  Profiling specific details ( e.  It is possible , nonetheless , that certain evidence may lead the profiler to suspect the criminal drives a certain type of vehicle .  The forensic utility of profiling is still questioned and it 's critical for people to realize that these profiles are merely educated guesses and law enforcement should not eliminate or ignore suspects who do n't fit the suspected profile .  Please explain like I'm five.  Such as the make , model and color of the car the criminal drives , the hobbies he or she might have , etc .  a particular car model ) can not be done with any sort of accuracy unless the profiler has additional information ( e. e.  The degree to which these profiles are accurate tends to increase with the number of data - points ( e. g.  If , on the other hand , the criminal is suspected of being a hunter and weapons enthusiast , it may be predicted that he drives a utility truck of some sort which has lots of storage space .  crime scenes ) that the profiler has to work with ( i.  It may therefore be predicted that the offender drives an environmentally friendly electric / hybrid car . g. g.  For example , evidence may suggest that the crime was politically motivated and the offender is an environmental protection activist .  that are believed to be linked to the same offender ) .  Criminal Profiling is still a hotly debated topic in Forensic Psychology since - although many profiles do turn out to be quite accurate - there are many criminals who are eventually caught and do n't end - up matching the predicted profile .  physical evidence or eye - witness accounts ) which leads him / her to make such a conclusion .  Source : Degree in Psychology & Criminology .