How did pirates / navy track down other ships back before radar / sonar ? I wondered this while watching Pirates of the Caribbean and wondered how ships chased each other down ? It 's not possible to track steps through ocean . Please explain like I'm five.

The ocean is endless but interesting places are not . I 'll assume here that the sail is n't on the horizon and we 're starting from scratch . Write a letter to everyone you know to every possible port and ship your target might encounter . Then make copies . Leave the letters for the packets to pick up . Packets were small , robust , but fairly fast ships that were the stagecoaches of the day . Part bus , part mail service , and always smelly and cramped . The packets would run a route picking up your letters and dropping them off at the destinations . Some packets would n't make it or the mail would simply be destroyed enroute . Which is why you made copies . Other times the packet would leave a letter in every port intended for a specific ship . Which is why you made copies . With luck and few weeks or a few months later the letters would be read . Your friends write back and describe the condition of the ship , where it was seen , and what activity it may be up to . Which you 'll read weeks or months later . However now you have a reasonable idea where to start the search . If the ship has weed on the hull then it will be slow and easier to catch . If the ship 's rigging is old and frayed then it will be slow and easier to catch . If the ship 's sails are thin and patched then it will be slow and easier to catch . So now you have an estimate of the speed . Then does the ship have enough water ? Is the ship using gunpowder excessively or conservatively ? Now you can start to guess how well supplied the ship is . This gives an idea of intent . Once the search region is known then it 's all about guessing where the ship will head next . Does the ship head for fresh water ? Does the ship head to a port for food or supplies ? Does the ship head to sea for mischief ? There are only so many interesting places to go . The most direct routes between these places form routes . Guess the destination and either get there first or attempt to intercept the ship at sea between destinations . Wait for days or weeks . Guess right and the sail should appear on the horizon . Now the chase begins . The winner is the faster ship or the one that does n't make the mistake . Luck , such as with the weather gauge , plays a huge factor on who chases whom . Guess wrong and spend the next few weeks or months repeating the process .